Interview pairing guidance (#215)
madetech/handbook: guides/hiring/pairing.md

# Interview Pair Programming Guidance

We want to achieve the following with this guidance:

- Put the candidate at ease
- Have some consistency around the process
- Make sure the assessor knows what to do (putting them at ease too)

## Guidance

1. Ask if they’ve done any pair programming before
2. Ask if they’re familiar with any styles of pair programming. e.g. Ping-Pong, Driver-Navigator.
3. Agree on a pairing style by explaining the rules.
4. Set the expectation that you will be pairing with them, as an active participant.
5. Ask if they are familiar with code katas.

> 6. If they are familiar, ask them about their favorities. Make a judgement call on the complexity (e.g. katas with a grid can be too much for 30 mins)

Reviewer: think you need to correct favorities to favourites

>   - it shouldn't matter if you've tackled the specific kata before or not.

Reviewer 2: These bullets aren't working properly in the generated markdown.

7. If they are not familiar, or they don’t have a favourite, take them to learn.madetech.com and discuss the options.
  - tennis or roman numerals are good for the time available.
  - don't do refactoring katas because they solely focus on refactoring skills. 
9. Set the expectation that the kata doesn’t need to be finished.

> 10. The candidate or you can write the first test, 

Reviewer 3: `The candidate or you can write the first test.`

> 10. The candidate or you can write the first test, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10. You're free to choose who writes the first test - you or the candidate.
```

  - See how far they can get with getting a test runner setup in the language of their choice. 
  - Help them if they find this challenging, if you can.
11. While pairing, pause on occasion to see if they can figure stuff out on their own (especially if you have seen the kata before).
12. If they make a decision that has many other alternative paths forward, question it to see if they have a good justification.
13. Afterwards, thank them for pairing and shake their hand, if culturally appropriate. This goes a long way to project our culture of respect, trust and knowledge sharing. 

## What we are looking for

**Knowledge & Skill**

- Ability to code (tests and production code).
- (If using their own machine), ability to create a new project and execute code.
- Pair Programming.

> - Good approach to problem-solving (TDD or otherwise).

Reviewer 3: Guidance around otherwise? Can I suggest a diagram if we're not TDDing?

Author: Yea if people are struggling to take a TDD approach, I wont be trying to teach them in 30 mins - instead I look for other coping mechanisms

- Pen & Paper
- Diagrams
- Writing comments with thought process
- REPL-driven development

Non-exhaustive - want to let the interviewer judge the sanity of the approach

Reviewer 3: Dealer's choice, then :)
